# SUPER-MARKET-STORE-DATA-ANALYSIS

SALES DATA REPORT FOR SUPER MARKET STORE
Introduction to the dataset
This dataset contains detail of a sales record in a super market at Myanmar within the range of time. Each row in this dataset represents a single sales record of a customer with the details as such invoice id, branch, city, customer type, gender, product line, unit price, quantity, Tax5%, revenue, date, time, payment mode, cost of goods sold, gross margin percentage, gross income and rating
Understanding this dataset will enable us to know the rate at which goods are sold in the various cities, total sales realized by the business and the areas which requires improvement base on the type of goods sold within the business
Research Abstract
Sales record are a widely necessity for every business to embark on so as to know the quantity of sales in the business and also to determine if the business is making profit or loss within a range of time 
This project will analyze the sales records within the cites In Myanmar where it has branches, the product sold, the low aspect of sales and revenue generated by the business and suggestion on the ways to improve them 
Data Analysis Process
1). Data Understanding 
The dataset records sales of the super market in Myanmar. Each row represents a sales record and columns contains details such as
•	Invoice Id: The identification number of the invoice issued out to customers
•	Branch: The various branch of the business owned by the same company
•	City: The location of the business within the country 
•	Customer Type: It shows if an identity customer is a register member of the business or a normal customer to the business
•	Gender: Male or Female customer
•	Product Line: Shows the various kind of goods sold 
•	Unit price: The prices of goods per unit
•	Quantity: The Amount of goods bought
•	Tax 5%: The amount paid as tax on the goods
•	Revenue: The total amount for the goods sold
•	Date/Time: When the Sales took place
•	Payment Mode: The method used in payment for the goods
•	Cost of Goods sold (cogs): The total Revenue subtracted from the tax paid
•	Gross Margin Percentage/gross income: This shows the amount realized after deducting the revenue from the cogs
2). Business Understanding
This business is a private owned store, which is operated to deliver well quality goods to its customers at a very affordable prices rate and a good customer service 
Who needs this information?
The Board of directors, Managers of the branches, Sales representatives and investors would love to understand the performance of the business in order to improve sales and invest more to the business 
Why is this Important? 
•	For restock on the sold goods
•	To ascertain the rate of sales within the Branch
•	To know on what product is widely sold in the stores
•	By analyzing this data, we can help decision makers find ways to improve sales 
3). Problem Statement
The increasing number of super markets within the country is really making the business more concerned, So the necessity to analyze the sales performance of the branches, kinds of goods sold within the branches, the inflow and outflow of the market and the key factors affecting the reduction on sales in the business
4). Objective
The main goal of this analysis is to:
Check the sales performance of the business (e.g. Branches, Customer, Month, Product)
Identify the common causes (e.g. Tax rate, Payment method)
Recommend sales strategies to apply to improve sales 
5). Business Questions
The following Questions will be answered to guide the analysis:
	What is the Average rate of the customers?
	Which Product line generated the highest sales?
	Of what performance does the Gender correlate on the amount of goods sold?
	How much Gross income was generated by the cities after removing the tax
	What are the Total Sales?
	Which Payment Mode is widely in demand by the customers in respect to sales payment?
	What Quantity of Product line is sold out by the Branches?
	Within a Sales Period, what Quantity of Product were sold out from the store?
	 In what month of the year was sales too low and also how does it affect the output of the business?
6). Data Cleaning 
Before analyzing, we need to ensure that data is accurate and complete. These incudes
	Check for missing values and filling them if possible.
	Removing of duplicates records if any exist
	Ensuring all dates and time are correctly formatted
	Checking for any incorrect or unrealistic values 
7). Insight & Analysis
The key Insight and analysis realized after cleaning the data includes.
	Most customers buy more of food and beverages other than health and beauty.
	It was realized that the females patronize the business often than the male.
	The city of Naypyitaw generated most of the incomes an performed more sales than others
	The E-wallet is widely used by the Normal customers while the Credit Card is mostly used by the Members 
	The Branches had almost the same number of outputs of product, Branch A had the most amongst them 
	The month of Feb was low compare to other months 
8). Recommendations
Base on the Insight, we will suggest the following was that will help in the improvement of sales.
i.	Other Product within the store needs to be improved especially the health and beauty category
ii.	The Month and the Cities where low sales were identified should be applied with more strategies like discount, so as to attract more customers
iii.	 The payment mode for the Normal customers especially the Credit Card needs to be improve to enable sales transactions.
Conclusion
This Project will help understand sales records and provide insight to improve sales amongst the branches. By identifying problem areas and causes, we hereby suggest better strategies to improve and promote the business widely in the country.
